As I mentioned at the end of the last video, we now apparently are doing some actual validation attempt
right now, but we are not actually communicating the results of that validation back to the user.
So let me show you how we're going to do that.
At the very top of this file, I'm going to find where we import it.
Express Validator.
In addition to importing body, we're going to import a second function called validation results.
This C function that we're going to run on the incoming request inside of our request handler.
Whenever we run validation result, it's going to inspect the request and pull out any information that
was appended to the request during this validation step.
So in other words, when these two steps right here do validation on the income request, if there's
anything wrong with the email or the password, these functions are going to append some properties
onto that request object.
So we use the validation result function to pull that validation information off.
So here's how we actually use it down inside of our route handler right above where we pull off email
and password, we're going to add in bounced errors is validation results on request.
Well then check to see if any heirs are actually present at this point in time.
We just pulled off an object that might contain some errors, so we need to take a look at that object
and decide whether or not something actually went wrong with the validation attempt.
I'll say if not, airport is empty.
So if there is an error or in other words, if the errors object is not empty, then we're going to
enter this if statement and we need to handle the error that just occurred in some way.
So inside of here, this would probably be a good location to somehow take the errors that were produced
and then send them back to the user early before executing anything else inside this function.
So we can run something inside of here, like return rez status.
Of 400.
Send it, we'll just send back the air's array object or the arrows object.
We're going to call a little method on it really quickly called array.
That's going to take the errors object, which currently is an object and has some methods attached
to it and turn it into an array of errors that can be safely send down be sent down as JSON data.
So in total, we've now said, take a look at that request object, pull off any errors that might have
occurred, see if any errors actually exist, and if they do return early and send back a response to
the person who gave us or sent us this request.
So if we make it past that if statement and we get down here now, we don't have to do this kind of
silly check right there anymore.
We could do a add in some logic right here that tries to create a user.
So I'll put in a console.log right now that says something like reading a user.
And then again, for right now, very temporarily, I'll do a resend of an empty object.
Just we can actually test this thing out.
Okay, so let's save this.
We're going to open up post man.
Remember that API client and we're going to attempt to send a post request to this signup route handler.
We're just going to make sure that this validation stuff is actually working.
I'm going to save the file and go back over to my terminal and just make sure that I got the updates
over on scaffold.
Yep.
Looks good.
Well, then open up, postman.
And then once Postman is open, we'll make a post request to that endpoint that we just put together.
So I'm going to make sure I'm making a post request.
I want to make that request to.
Ticketing dot dev slash API users sign up.
Well then go over to headers.
I'll make sure I still have a content type of application JSON.
I'll then go to body.
I'll make sure I've got raw selected.
And remember we are expecting to receive an email and a password for this first test.
I'm going to put in something that is definitely not a valid email, just a plain string like.
So I'm going to also enter an a password that is just one character.
I'll then make sure I've got JSON selected and then I'm going to attempt to send this off.
Now when we send this, I'll take a look at the response and just, you know, if you get an error or
if it says down here something like HTTPS error or something like that, which is entirely possible,
then pause video right now and check out a text lecture right after this one.
So again, if you get a distinct error down here around HTTPS or something like that, go check the
text in the next lecture.
More relevant.
However, if I take a look at the response we got back, you'll notice I got 400 bad requests and it
has some information about exactly what just went wrong with the request.
So I've got some error message around the email.
I've also got an error message around the password as well.
If I actually enter in a valid email.
So I'll put in about my favorite, which is test at test and a password of password and set that off.
Now I got back an empty object, which means I got past that validation step.
And so if I go back with my terminal, I will see that console.log.
That says creating a user.
So it's definitely looks good.
We've definitely got some validation inside of here.
Now, at this point, you might be thinking to yourself, Hey, Steven, this is of course, about microservices,
not validation.
I know, I know.
Unfortunately, we're going to go through a lot of steps like this where I just tell you and give you
a reminder of how some stuff in Express works.
The reason for that is that all the code you see right here, we are going to abstract out and write
in a not all of this but a decent amount of it.
We are going to extract a lot of this out and rewrite it in a very reusable fashion and then reuse it
between multiple different services we create.
I don't want to just jump directly to that reuse step because if we do so, a lot of the stuff is going
to get really confusing really quickly.
So I want you to very directly and right now immediately understand how this validation stuff really,
truly works.
Because again, we're going to start to rewrite this stuff very quickly and in a much more reusable
and a little bit more challenging to understand fashion.
So again, I apologize if a lot of this stuff is kind of repetitive for you, but I do feel like we've
got to get a quick review before we just jump to that reusable version.
Okay.
So quick pause right here and continue in just a minute.